Date: 30 September 2024

Session title : MongoDB

Afternoon Session

Summary:
What is NoSQL ?
SQL Query Engine
SQL processor/engine/main_lib
Schema-full and schema-less
SQL Like engine
Why NoSQL ?
SQL vs NoSQL
Why is SQL always used as a master database ?
Use cases of NoSQL databases.
How to make different relations in mongoDB
CRUD in mongoDB
Different filter operators of find.
Different operators of update.
Limit, skip, count and sort methods.

Task Assigned:

Remove middle element using pull
Use all operators of update in mflix database
Limit sort and skip implementation in movies
Use anding and oring in one query
Use regex operator to make search of plot


Evening Session

Summary:

Regex
Transactions in mongoDB
Replica set in mongoDB
Replica set in SQL
Shredding in Database



Date: 1 October 2024

Title- MongoDB Aggregation

Session Summary:

What is aggregation?
Different type of aggregate operators
match
count
sort
group
limit
skip
project
addField
lookup
out
facet
arrayElemAt
Unwind
What is an aggregation pipeline?
What is $ and $$ used for?
Use of let variable.
Indexes and types of indexing
TTL(time to leave)
Pagination and offset

TODO:

Make a file of all queries of mongodb in js and push it on a git by creating pr add aakash as reviewers.
Explore other aggregate operations too.
To performing some query task on given sample database - “sample_mflix”
Write a query to find all movies that share at least one cast member with "Blacksmith Scene."
Write a query to find the top 5 movies with the highest IMDb ratings that were released before the year 1900.
Write a query to find all movies directed by "William K.L. Dickson." Return the titles, release years, and IMDb ratings of the movies.
Write an aggregation query to find the top 3 directors who have directed the most movies in the "Short" genre. Return the directors' names and the number of movies.
Write a query to find movies where the number of reviews in `tomatoes.viewer.numReviews` has increased by at least 10% over the past year. Return the titles and the number of reviews.
Write an aggregation query to find the pair of actors who have appeared together in the most number of movies. Return their names and the number of movies they've co-starred in.
